hey guys welcome back to the channel
today we're going to be looking at
blumhouse's truth or dare
here we follow a group of college
students as they try to survive a deadly
real-life version of the truth or dare
game as each of them gets their turn
they must reveal their deepest secrets
or do extremely risky acts that put the
group under danger and in this video
we'll look at how to survive
all the fatal dares to keep everyone
alive but before we get started with the
story we need some explanation of what's
going on
because the movie reveals everything
very slowly and we require this
information
to know how to beat it the game of truth
or dare that's being played in the movie
is possessed by a demon
one of the helpful characters lets us
know that spirits cannot just take over
people but also ideas
when it's your turn to pick you will be
asked to choose either truth or dare the
way it usually works is that someone
near you will appear possessed and asked
you to pick in a strange voice with this
exaggerated smile
i'm sorry i beg your pardon truth or
dare when you choose truth it's pretty
simple because you just have to answer
honestly but the deers are pretty
dangerous and sometimes even deadly
however the way the demon phrases the
dares is usually so
vague that they leave a lot of room for
interpretation it should be your goal to
do as little as possible to technically
complete the dare
yet causing as little damage and pain as
possible
if you simply deny doing the dare or
tell a lie when choosing truth
the spirit will possess you and cause
you to die we also find out that you
usually have a few minutes to complete
the dare before the demon kills you
okay so let's get started the movie
opens with a young woman driving through
mexico quickly rushing towards the
border
she stops at a gas station to buy some
cigarettes when the cashier turns to her
he asks in a strange voice truth or dare
truth or dare
please i don't want to play anymore like
truth or
dare a few moments later she grabs some
lighter fluid
pours it on another person in the store
and sets her on fire
the other shopper erupts in a big flame
and burns to death
it's obvious that she picked dare but we
don't actually hear what she had to do
like i said later on we see that the
dares are always stated in an extremely
unclear way
so i'm certain that it was something
simple like set the woman on fire
but it most likely involved nothing
about killing the woman or using lighter
fluid
if that's the case she should take some
time to prepare for completing the dare
effectively
since we see that she's at a gas station
there must be a fire extinguisher nearby
which she can take
if the demon told her to use the lighter
fluid just don't use
that much of it once the woman is not on
fire she or the cashier can use the fire
extinguisher
to quickly rescue her so that she lives
after that we cut to olivia one of our
protagonists
she joins her friends for a week of
partying in mexico in the intro we see
them having fun
as we rush through their vacation on
their last night olivia meets a guy
who introduces himself as carter and he
seems really nice
when it's getting late he invites the
group to a mysterious place where they
can party all night
olivia convinces them all to go so she
can hang out with him a little longer
they all accept and agree to carter's
plan we see them driving far into the
desert to a small isolated church on a
hill
it's dead quiet inside and they're
completely alone
then carter invites the group to play a
game of truth or dare a few rounds go by
where they each reveal very personal
information which will come to haunt
them later on
it's revealed that olivia is secretly in
love with marky's boyfriend lucas
and tyson an aspiring doctor is putting
the lives of young students at risk
by selling them forged drug
prescriptions also brad reveals that
he's gay
penelope is there to make out with
olivia and ronnie who harasses all the
girls gives tyson the weirdest lap dance
ever
thank you rain peso watch your pesos
eventually carter picks truth and is
asked what his intentions with olivia
are
he provides a bizarre answer mentioning
how he needed a few gullible tourists to
come here
because he's okay with strangers dying
if it means he gets to live
carter then gets up and leaves as he
walks away olivia goes after him and
asks him what's wrong but he only says
that the game is real and they must
follow the rules or else they die
the group thinks this is some weird joke
and ignore it
in the following days they all return to
college and continue their life as
normal
one day when olivia goes into the
library to speak to marky
she gets surrounded by a bunch of
students looking at her with exaggerated
smiles
chatting truth or dare eventually she
picks truth and is asked what secret her
best friend makes her hide
to which she screams out loud that marky
always cheats on her boyfriend
suddenly everything goes back to normal
the other kids are no longer near her
and have no idea what's going on
marky's also quite confused and wonders
why olivia would share this information
with everyone
what we saw here is that they're asked
to pick truth or dare by demonic visions
that only they can see
so there is a way to beat questions like
this when saying the truth just say it
really quietly so no one can hear if
olivia would whisper the secret neither
marky nor the other students would hear
it
now i didn't come up with that i've seen
many reviewers mention this because it's
quite obvious
also olivia is in a library so she
should try to keep it down anyways
a few hours go by and during the evening
ronnie's at a bar playing pool
he tries talking to a girl when she
suddenly also has that creepy smile
she asks some truth or dare and ronnie
picks dare
he's told to get on the table and show
the entire bar his
you know eggplant he goes on the table
to announce it to everyone but when some
girl in the back says that she has seen
it before and wasn't oppressed
he's very offended and doesn't want to
do it anymore then
ronnie also has the smile and is
seemingly possessed
a few seconds later he jumps off the
pool table and breaks his neck
we get another essential rule here never
turn down the dare otherwise you will be
possessed by the demon and die in a
gruesome way
since this is a pretty simple dare all
ronnie had to do was show his pecker to
everyone and he would be fine
however a picture of it would be just as
good the dare mentioned nothing about
ronnie pulling his pants down so he can
quickly go to the bathroom take a photo
of it and then go on top of the table
and show it to everyone
this is an example of technically
completing the dare yet avoiding what
the demon really wanted you to do
after ronnie's death olivia is with her
friends and tries explaining what
happened in the library
shortly after they all get a
notification on their phone they see the
video of ronnie jumping off the table
and breaking his neck
the girls believe that after playing
carter's game they are somehow cursed
and need to play this game or else they
die
but lucas doesn't quite believe them and
just walks home however
while he's on his way he keeps hearing
people whispering even though nobody's
around
suddenly the question of truth or dare
is burned into his forearm
he picks truth and after completing his
turn he calls olivia to tell her that he
too believes that this is real
lucas then goes back to olivia's place
so they can stay in a group
later that night they try convincing
marky as well however she thinks that
olivia is simply making up an excuse for
embarrassing her
marky then gets a text asking her truth
or dare she picks dare and it tells her
to break olivia's hand
marky still thinks this is a bad
practical joke but olivia stays serious
and reaches for a hammer and tells her
to do it
marky isn't entirely convinced but when
olivia makes fun of her father's death
she slams the hammer on her hand for
this one there isn't a way out of it
marky has to break her hand
but they go about it in the worst
possible way they should use the little
time they have to complete the dare to
go into the car and already go to the
hospital so that olivia doesn't have to
wait to get fixed up
also the way marky hits her is very
unnecessary
from what we see she hits her dead
center in the middle of her palm
but the goal is not to cause as much
pain as possible
so what she can do instead is break one
of her finger bones which is still
considered part of her hand
this is much more effective than hitting
her in the lower portion of the palm
as it breaks a lot fewer bones and
causes much less pain
after the injury lucas and brad take her
to her hospital
while she gets her hand fixed olivia
figures out that they're being asked
in the same order that they played in
mexico which means that tyson's turn is
next
however he still doesn't know that the
game is real which means he could die if
he's not careful
he's currently in a college interview
which is going pretty well
meanwhile the others are rushing to him
to stop anything bad from happening
when the interview comes to an end the
woman talking to him locks the door and
asks him to pick
he chooses truth and is asked how long
he's been forging prescriptions
but instead of telling the truth he lies
and says that he doesn't know what she's
talking about
the woman goes back to normal but then
tyson gets possessed
he grabs his pen and stabs himself to
death now when tyson is asked about how
long he's been forging prescriptions he
must follow the rules and tell the truth
however he doesn't actually need to
expose himself instead he just needs to
say the words
two years which is the correct answer
that's how long he's been doing it
but the interviewer didn't hear herself
raising the question
since it's the demon speaking not her so
all she would get
is tyson randomly saying the words two
years without any context
meaning that a secret wouldn't be
revealed yet he still would have
completed his turn successfully
back in their house lucas says that the
only way to survive is to always choose
truth
we also see penelope getting drunk by
finishing a whole bottle of vodka
and this is already a critical mistake
even though she just lost
tyson who was her boyfriend by the way
the others should stop her from getting
completely wasted
and it's because there's a demon after
them waiting to exploit their weaknesses
this requires them to make good
decisions and truly understand what
they're doing
which she can't do when she's totally
hammered the others try researching
carter to see if they can get his
contact info
they then stumble upon an article about
the girl we've seen in the beginning
her name is gisele hammond who had gone
missing after killing the woman at the
gas station
they see this strange incident through
surveillance footage in the video it's
shown that the cashier is behaving
normally
only giselle sees him as the deformed
demon when they complete the video
olivia finds her on facebook and sees a
picture of her with carter
marky then writes her a threatening
message telling her to meet up with them
meanwhile penelope goes to the bathroom
when she looks into the mirror she sees
a demonic version of herself asking her
to pick
she quickly picks truth but the being
tells her that's not how it works and to
choose something else
again we don't hear the dare but a few
moments later she climbs up to the roof
shortly after her friends find her and
watch from downstairs lucas decides to
go up too so he can catch her in case
she falls
penelope tells them all that she tried
picking truth but it wouldn't let her
so she was there to walk along the ledge
of the roof until her vodka bottle is
finished
since she's already drunk she can just
barely walk in a straight line so she
must constantly balance to survive
penelope walks along the roof and keeps
drinking while watching from below
olivia tells the others to grab
something to cushion the fall in case
she drops
brad and mark can go inside and return
with probably the thinnest mattress ever
and walk underneath her
however eventually she walks over a
locked gate with sharp rods
olivia sees this and quickly decides to
get her car to ram it down
as she's bumping into it penelope gets
more insecure and continues shaking
moments later olivia finally rams down
the gate and they put the mattress on
the car's roof
suddenly with the last sip of vodka
penelope falls off the ledge but lands
on the mattress and appears to be our
right
so when she was up on the roof penelope
revealed that she had to walk across the
ledge while finishing a vodka bottle
also when lucas climbs up to her and
tries helping by holding her hand
penelope shows that she isn't sure if
it's allowed meaning that the dare once
again was phrased in a very unclear way
so one way of increasing your odds of
surviving this one is by only walking in
the areas where you're less likely to
fall
at one point we see her leaning on the
dormer of the roof
and since she doesn't immediately get
killed it's not against the rules
it's also shown that while sipping from
the bottle she stops walking
so penelope should move extremely slowly
while leaning on the window
she can also stop a lot to take sips
from the bottle this way she can finish
the dare while not risking falling off
the roof
or she can simply walk back and forth
while being over the grass to avoid the
risk of falling on concrete
it's also better if she doesn't walk so
close to the ledge
sometimes she's much further away than
others meaning that it wasn't specified
how close to it she must be to make the
dare easier
she should leave some space to the ledge
so that she doesn't immediately tip over
if she slightly loses our balance
after completing the dare they get a
message from gisele telling them to meet
up
once they see her in a parking lot the
group asks her what's going on
giselle tells them how they were also at
the mysterious church
and because one of her friends called
sam trashed the place
he somehow released the demon she also
mentions why penelope couldn't pick
truth
it's because the version they played was
two truths and a dare so they can only
pick truth twice before the next one has
to choose there
and put themselves at risk of losing
their life giselle then asks which one
of them is olivia
they ask how she knows her name but
before she answers gisele pulls out a
gun and tries to shoot her
penelope quickly jumps in front of the
bullet so olivia stays unharmed
giselle failing to have completed the
dare then shoots herself while being
possessed
for drizzle to survive there aren't that
many options after missing the shot she
mentions that the dare was to kill
olivia
if she only had to shoot her she could
reveal what the dare was so they can
work together
then giselle can just graze her with a
bullet so that olivia wouldn't die from
the shop
but since she had to kill her that's not
an option still giselle's approach was
very flawed
she decided to complete the dare not
quickly but instead
slowly pulling out the gun to let
everyone figure out what she was doing
that way olivia was able to be protected
an easier way to do it is to kill olivia
when she turns her back to giselle while
walking back to the car
that way none of her friends can save
her anyways the group goes back to
olivia's house to discuss what their
next move should be
they recall that giselle told them that
all of this started with a creepy old
church
so the answer to their problem probably
lies there olivia then goes into a room
to look for a charger but gets asked by
an intruder to pick truth or dare
meanwhile marky and lucas read about a
nun that used to work there and they
think she can help
the two then hear olivia screaming and
run towards her
she informs them that she picked dare
and was told to sleep with lucas
marcu decides to leave because she
doesn't want to watch her best friend
doing it with her boyfriend after she's
gone lucas and olivia have a
surprisingly passionate
love making session then suddenly olivia
strangles lucas and asks him to pick
he's asked who he truly loves and lucas
says that although olivia is very
special to him
he loves marky they then stop their
dance with no pants and both of them are
done with their turns
what's important to note here is that
the demon didn't ask them for all this
extra romance
that was all their choice meanwhile
marky is sitting at a local restaurant
watching a video of her dead father
somehow the video then tells her to pick
it asked her a fairly harmless question
that doesn't really advance the story in
any way
so we'll just skip over it we then see
that olivia and lucas drove to mexico to
meet the old nun who worked at the
church
her caretaker says that she hasn't
spoken a word in many years but she will
at least
see them it's revealed that she can
physically talk so she writes some notes
telling them how she
accidentally summoned a spirit which
possessed the game
they then also had to play but were able
to successfully find a way out the
person who releases the demon can trap
it and stop the game with a simple
ritual
all it takes is saying a particular
spell seven times
and cutting off your tongue and locking
it in a jar
as long as the pot stays closed the
demon is trapped inside
and that's what the nun did she shows
them that she no longer has a tongue
from this we can tell that the being was
released after giselle and her friends
partied in the church
and sam the person giselle mentioned
accidentally broke the jar with a tongue
inside
which then released the demon olivia and
lucas then go back home and think they
will never be able to stop the curse
since they have no idea how to find sam
they go to brad's apartment and talk to
him while telling him what they learned
from the nun
his father enters and asks to speak to
him outside brad then hears a voice
through his radio asking him to pick
since the last two chose truth he must
do a dare
i dare you to steal his gun and make him
beg for his life
brad then gives his dad a big hug after
which he takes his pistol
he tells his dad to get on his knees but
the father is just confused
the dad simply won't beg since he
doesn't know what's happening
then another officer arrives and shoots
brad in the back because he held a
loaded gun
in public now since they always have a
few minutes to complete their dares
there was a way for brad to live he can
quickly ask his dad to talk inside so
they wouldn't be out in public
that way nobody could see what they're
doing and the other officer wouldn't
have shot him
after brad's death the remaining three
meet up to talk about what they can do
then one of the police officers wants to
talk with olivia to question her about
what's going on
throughout their conversation the man
explains how according to their
investigation
of the recent deaths there are four more
people alive playing this game
and he doesn't want any more to die
since there are only two of olivia's
friends remaining she asks who the
fourth person is
the man tells her that someone named sam
is still around which was the person
that giselle said released the demon
the officer shows her a picture of this
guy and it's carter
sam simply used a fake name with her
olivia gets his contact information and
now the remaining three friends want to
track him down
they want to force him to end the game
by completing the ritual the nun told
them about
this includes repeating the spell and
removing the tongue
they then go to sam's apartment and tell
them that they found a way to stop the
game but they don't tell him about the
tongue part
they drive down to the church to start
the ritual to end this once and for all
sam repeats the spell on the paper and
the church begins to shake and slowly
fall apart
while he's reading the lines lucas gets
a vision of sam
asking him to pick and lucas chooses
dare we once again
don't hear what the dare is but we see
him trying to walk away
monkey asks him what's up and lucas
shares that it told him to either kill
marky or olivia
his plan is to walk off so that he can't
complete the dare and the girls live
while marky and lucas are talking sam
finishes repeating the spell
after which olivia tells him that he now
needs to cut out his tongue to end it
and she can't do it for him
sam obviously says no we then see that
since lucas didn't do as there he
becomes possessed by the being and tries
to kill sam so that he can't complete
the ritual to trap the demon
but before lucas can get to him marky
tackles him to the ground
olivia continues threatening sam with a
gun to do it and he actually starts
cutting it out
the possessed lucas then frees himself
and kills sam before he can complete the
ritual
as well as himself
this situation would have been really
easy to avoid lucas simply needed to
pick truth instead of dare
the person who had to pick prior to him
shows dare so truth is an option
we see that it always takes some time
for the next person to get their
turn meaning that if lucas picked truth
and completed his turn
sam could have successfully completed
the ritual since they would have enough
time before it's somebody else's turn
also lucas wouldn't turn into the demon
and set out to kill him
now he tells morky that he picked dare
because otherwise one of the girls
needed to
but if he finished his turn they could
have completed the ritual
and the curse would be lifted meaning
that the game is over and nobody would
be asked anymore
so lucas tried making himself look like
the noble hero by picking dare
but it was a really bad choice that
didn't benefit anyone
the group was only seconds away from
getting rid of the demon
and if there's one thing we learned from
horror movies it's this
don't be the hero you will probably save
more people by being selfish
anyways after his death there's only
olivia and marky left and the game is
still on
olivia comes up with a plan and tells
morky to pick there once she's asked
the dead lucas asks her and she follows
olivia's instructions
the deal is to shoot olivia however
olivia tells her to not do it as it's
the only way to end the game
marky turns down the dare after which
she gets possessed
then through some fast hand movements
olivia gets her to shoot her in the arm
but the bullet only grazes her olivia
then asks the demon to choose truth or
dare
she tells him that the dare is complete
since she got shot they're both in the
church and once you're asked you're in
so by that logic he must now
also play the demon picks truth and
olivia asked her what they must do to be
free
the answer she gets is that she must
introduce new players into the game
if olivia brings in let's say another
1000 people
she will only get another turn after
those 1000 people already had theirs
she then starts a live stream in the
church asking all of her viewers to pick
truth or dare
therefore now all of our viewers are in
this final scene makes it clear how you
can easily survive the curse
you simply need to record one video of
yourself in the church
inviting everyone to play then share it
on social media
of course you'd eventually run out of
followers to show it to as your friends
and loved ones would slowly start
dying but there is a way around that you
can create a youtube or facebook video
ad and then pay to spread it to everyone
the video seems innocent enough and
doesn't seem to directly break any of
youtube's ad guidelines
they exist mostly to stop the spread of
violent shocking or
illegal content however none of that
applies to a video of you asking to pick
truth or dare so would most likely be
approved
then for about 1 dollar you can get
around 100 people to see it
since there are new members joining
youtube daily you would never run out of
people to show the ad
so those are some ways to be truth or
dare as always let me know if i missed
anything
and how you would beat the demon thank
you guys so much for watching
i hope i get to see you in the next one
bye guys
you